### Installing Apache Airflow
##

# Installing Apache Airflow

Using Docker is undoubtedly the easiest way to set up and run Apache Airflow

### But!

Knowing how to install Apache Airflow manually is important as well

### Why?

How could you customize your Airflow Docker image (e.g., installing dependencies) if you don't know what to modify?

## Steps
Let's discover the different steps to install and set up Airflow.

### 1/ Python
> First, make sure you have Python 3.6+ installed on your computer.

> Please note that you can no longer run Apache Airflow 2.0 on Python 2.7. (which is great btw 😀)

### 2/ Pip
> The official way of installing Airflow is with Pip.

> Pip is a python package manager used to install and manage python packages. 

> You will use pip to install Apache Airflow and all dependencies it needs to run.

### 3/ System dependencies (Linux users only)
> On Linux, you have to install certain operating system dependencies as shown below

> `sudo apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends \
        freetds-bin \
        krb5-user \
        ldap-utils \
        libffi6 \
        libsasl2-2 \
        libsasl2-modules \
        libssl1.1 \
        locales  \
        lsb-release \
        sasl2-bin \
        sqlite3 \
        unixodbc`
        
### 4/ Installing Apache Airflow
> Once you're done will the previous steps, you're ready to install Apache Airflow.

> The command is pretty simple, you need to execute:

> `pip install apache-airflow`  ...but, wait a minute!

>That's not the best way.  Airflow comes with MANY dependencies.

> If one dependency is updated, the above command will install the latest version. This may cause dependency incompatibilities and errors.

> That's why it is always recommended to add a constraint file.

> A constraint file contains all python libraries needed by Airflow along with their pined version.

> That way, you can be sure that the right dependencies are installed.

> Execute the following command:

>>`export AIRFLOW_VERSION=2.5.1`  
>>`export PYTHON_VERSION=3.8`  
  
>>`pip install apache-airflow==${AIRFLOW_VERSION} --constraint https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-${AIRFLOW_VERSION}/constraints-${PYTHON_VERSION}.txt`
 
(Where AIRFLOW_VERSION is the version of Airflow you want to install, 2.0.0 and PYTHON_VERSION, your python version, 3.6, 3.7 or 3.8)

## Well done! 
At this point you've successfully installed Airflow but... you can't run it.

### Why?

Because it needs to be initialized first.

This process consists of two steps:

1. Generating the files and folders needed by Airflow (logs/, airflow.cfg, unitests.cfg etc.)
2. Initializing the metadata database (SQLite by default)

#### AIRFLOW_HOME
 > By default, the files and folders are generated in the folder ~/airflow

 > You can modify this behavior by setting the AIRFLOW_HOME environment variable.

 > For example, to initialize airflow in the folder /opt, export the following environment variable:

>> `AIRFLOW_HOME=/opt/airflow`

## DB init
>Once you're good with your Airflow home, initialize Airflow with:

>> `airflow db init`

# Congratulations!

Airflow is ready to run with the default configuration settings!