## Upgrading Apache Airflow


# Upgrading Apache Airflow

You don't want to get stuck with an older version of Airflow, do you?

## Steps
Let's discover the different steps to upgrade Airflow (from 2.0.0 to 2.0.1, for example).

### 1/ DB
> Make sure to make a backup of your Airflow metadata database. Losing your data is a worst-case scenario, so always backup your data before any update.  
> 
> If you're based on Postgres, pg_dump and pg_dumpall are your friends.  
> 
> There are different ways of backing up your db, but taking a snapshot is the easiest one.   

### 2/ DAGs
> Make sure there are no deprecated features in your DAGs. (i.e., Features that are not supported anymore).  
> 
> Pause all your DAGs and make sure no tasks are running.  
> 
>  Why? Because you don't want to have anything being written into the DB while it is getting upgraded.  

### 3/ Upgrading Apache Airflow
> Once you're done with the previous steps, you're ready to install Apache Airflow.  
> 
> The command is pretty simple, you just need to execute:  
> 
> `pip install "apache-airflow[any_extra]==2.0.1" --constraint constraint-file`  

### 4/ Upgrade the DB
> You need to execute  
>  - `airflow db upgrade`  
> 
> to modify and apply the latest database schema, as well as to map the existing data into it.

### 5/ Restart  
> Finally, restart the scheduler, webserver and worker(s)
> 
> Please note that this is the easiest way to upgrade Apache Airflow. Obviously, in practice, it can be be more complex than this depending on your constraints.
> 
> These can include things like whether or not you can afford downtime, the size of your data, your architecture, whether or not you have multiple schedulers etc.